The Great FluxScoreboard
========================
The Great FluxScoreboard is a relict from times where scoreboards meant
something to people. It was mostly created by javex and later defiled by qll
(aka "The Unholy One"). It is written with a gazillion of libraries but the main
framework is based on Pyramid.

Here is a high level overview of the project:
- `/alembic/` contains the database migration files. Like, when your database
  wants to migrate to different countries or something along the lines of that.
- `/cfg/` contains all the configuration. Good configurations will be
  automatically generated by the `run` script.
- `/data/` contains all other data sources needed for the installation.
- `/docs/` contains documentation of the project (javex tries to keep up with
  documenting stuff, qll writes godlike code which documents itself exclusively
  to himself).
- `/fluxscoreboard/` contains the actual Pyramids project. Please don't look
  inside it. I really don't want to explain all folders in there, too :-/
- `/log/` contains all log files. That one is cleverly named, huh?.
- `/tests/` contains all unit tests.
- `/tmp/` I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT IT CONTAINS LOL.


Installation
------------
After accepting that you are unworthy of setting up the project by yourself,
you'll find the `run` script helpful. The only thing you have to do is:

    ./run install development

Isn't that a nifty bad boy? It asks you everything it needs. So. Cool. I wonder
what kind of genius wrote this. Make sure you execute this in a virtual
environment. If you really can't help it pass the `--no-venv` flag to skip the
virtual env check.

You can then execute the following command to execute all unit tests:

    ./run test

Finally you might want to take a look at this sexy web application. The
following command will run a development server on port 6543.

    ./run serve

If you want to have greater control over the port and shit, run:

    pserve cfg/development.ini port=8000
